---
name: Vega/Altair Plot
tools: [Python, Altair, vega-lite]
image: assets/pngs/license.png
description: Homework 5 Assignment
custom_js:
  - vega.min
  - vega-lite.min
  - vega-embed.min
  - justcharts
---


# License Data plot using vega-lite

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/altair_licenseURL.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>


## Plot1

For my first plot, I visualized how different U.S. states appear in the licensing dataset across time. I used a heatmap because it gives a clear sense of density and lets me compare states across different time periods. The x-axis shows the binned “Effective Year” and the y-axis lists the states. I mapped the color to the count of records using a blue gradient so that darker shades indicate years with more licenses recorded. Also, I want to align color tone with Plot2. 

Regarding data transformation, I extracted the year from the “Effective Date” column using transform_calculate and then binned the years into 10-year ranges using transform_bin. This helped simplify the x-axis and make the heatmap more readable.


## Plot2

My second plot looks at the distribution of license types and it is linked to the first plot through interactive brushing. The x-axis represents each license type and the y-axis shows the count of records. I chose a simple bar chart because it clearly highlights which license types appear most frequently. Like in the first plot, I also calculated the effective year and used the same bins so the two visualizations line up correctly.


## Interactivity

The interactive component is the brush selection applied to the heatmap. When the user drags over a set of states or effective years, the bar chart updates automatically to show only the license types from the selected region and year. This interaction makes the plot more useful because users can focus on specific states or decades without looking through the full dataset.


<!-- these are written in a combo of html and liquid --> 

<div class="left">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/raw/main/licenses_fall2022.csv" text="The Data" %}
</div>

<div class="right">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/jnaiman/online_cv_public/blob/main/python_notebooks/test_generate_plots.ipynb" text="The Analysis" %}
</div>

